
Creating a Scoreboard Using TLM  Lab 9A 
36  SystemVerilog Advanced Verification Using UVM  5/22/11 
 
 
Lab 9A  Creating a Scoreboard Using TLM 
 
Objective:  To build a scoreboard using TLM.  
 
For this lab, you will build and connect a scoreboard for the router, and create TLM analysis port 
connections to hook up the scoreboard to the UVCs. 
 
The router Module UVC is a complex design, so this lab has been deliberately broken down into 
separate steps to build the UVC progressively. 
 
First step is to implement the scoreboard component itself and connect it up to the YAPP and 
Channel UVCs. For this part of the lab we assume all packets are sent to legal addresses with legal 
payload length, i.e. the router does not drop any packets.  
 
 
port 
imp 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  We will be working with the testbench, testclass and top files from lab08. Copy these 
files from lab08/tb into lab09a/tb. Work in the lab09a/tb directory. 
  2.  A TLM analysis port has already been implemented in the Channel UVC monitors. 
Check this to make sure you understand how it is written. 
Note that the Channel UVC has a common monitor, channel_monitor.sv, for both 
the TX and RX agents. The Channel monitor analysis port for collected YAPP packets is 
named item_collected_port. 
  3.  Modify yapp/sv/yapp_tx_monitor.sv to create an analysis port instance. 
a.  Declare an analysis port object, parameterized to the correct type. 
b.  Construct the analysis port in the monitor constructor. 
 
c.  Call the port write() at the appropriate point. 
testbench 
Channel0 
UVC 
Chan0 
YAPP 
UVC  Chan1 
 Chan2  (also for 
other 
channels) 
Mon 
 
Scoreboard  Mon 
Lab 9A  Creating a Scoreboard Using TLM 
5/22/2011  SystemVerilog Advanced Verification Using UVM  37 
 
 
4.  In the lab9a/sv directory, create the scoreboard, router_scoreboard.sv. 
a.  Define four analysis imp objects (for the YAPP and three Channels) using 
`uvm_analysis_imp_decl macros and uvm_analysis_imp_* objects. 
b.  Add a constructor, and create analysis imp instances in the constructor. 
c.  Use the YAPP write()implementation to clone the packet and then push the 
packet to a queue. Hint: Use a queue for each address. 
 
d.  Use Channel write()implementations to pop packets from the appropriate queue 
and compare them to the channel packets. 
 
e.  Add counters for the number of packets received, wrong packets (compare failed) and 
matched packets (compare passed). 
 
f.  Add a report_phase() method to print the number of packets received, wrong 
packets, matched packets and number of packets left in the queues at the end of 
simulation. 
  5.  In the lab09a/tb directory, modify the router_tb.sv as follows: 
a.  Declare and build the scoreboard. 
 
b.  Add the TLM connections between YAPP, Channel, and scoreboard. 
 
c.  Use the same multichannel sequences as in lab08 to test your scoreboard 
implementation, i.e. short packets with legal addresses, so that no packets are dropped 
by the router. 
 
d.  Check that the simulation results are correct.  
Router Module UVC (Optional)  Lab 9B 
38  SystemVerilog Advanced Verification Using UVM  5/22/11 
 
 
Lab 9B  Router Module UVC (Optional) 
 
Objective:  To create a module UVC for the router using the scoreboard  
 
In reality, the scoreboard will only be one part of a larger router module UVC. For example the 
router UVC may also contain reference models and coverage. All these components will be enclosed 
in an env class. 
In our example, we need to know the MAXPKTSIZE and ENABLE router settings so we know which 
packets are dropped. We can implement this in a separate router reference model component. 
 
The router reference connects to the YAPP and HBUS UVC analysis ports and selectively passes on 
YAPP input packets to the scoreboard depending on the HBUS settings. An env wrapper will 
instantiate both reference and scoreboard into a single router module UVC, as shown.  
router module UVC 
 
port 
imp 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  We will be working with the files from lab09a. Copy these files from lab09a into 
lab09b. Work in the lab09b directory 
  2.  A TLM analysis port has already been implemented in the HBUS UVC monitor. 
Note that the HBUS UVC has a common monitor, hbus_monitor.sv, for both the 
master and slave agents. The HBUS monitor analysis port for collected 
hbus_transaction's is named item_collected_port. 
Check this to make sure you understand how it is written. 
  3.  Create the router reference, router_reference.sv, in the lab09b/sv directory. 
a.  Extend from uvm_component. 
b.  Define two analysis imp objects for the YAPP and HBUS monitor analysis ports, 
using `uvm_analysis_imp_decl macros and uvm_analysis_imp_* 
objects. (Copy declarations from your scoreboard.) These are for input data to the 
reference. 
Chan0 
YAPP  YAPP 
Chan1 
HBUS 
Chan2 
Reference 
 
Scoreboard 
Lab 9B  Router Module UVC (Optional) 
5/22/2011  SystemVerilog Advanced Verification Using UVM  39 
 
 
c.  Define one analysis port object for the valid YAPP packets. This is for output data to 
the scoreboard. 
 
d.  Define variables to mirror the MAXPKTSIZE and ENABLE registers of the router and 
update these in the HBUS write() implementation. 
e.  In your YAPP write() implementation, forward the YAPP packets onto the 
scoreboard only if the packet is valid (router enabled; MAXPKTSIZE not exceeded; 
address valid). Keep a separate count of invalid packets dropped due to size, enable 
and address violations. 
Note in a real-world example, we would have to explore race conditions when the 
HBUS changes packet size during the processing of a packet. However there is a 
REGMEM UVM feature specifically for handling and verifying registers in a design. 
REGMEM is covered in the advanced UVM training. 
  4.  Create the router module environment, router_module_env.sv, in the 
lab09b/sv directory. 
a.  Declare and build the scoreboard and router reference components. 
 
b.  Connect the “valid YAPP” analysis port of the reference model to the YAPP analysis 
imp of the scoreboard model. 
  5.  In the tb directory, modify the router_tb.sv. 
a.  Replace the scoreboard declaration and build with the router module. 
 
b.  Modify the TLM connections for the YAPP and Channel analysis ports to allow for 
the router_env layer. 
c.  Add a connection for the HBUS analysis port. 
  6.  Create a router.svh file containing includes for all the router module UVC files, and 
reference this in your top module. 
 
a.  Use the same multichannel sequences to test your scoreboard and system monitor 
implementation. 
 
b.  Check the simulation results are correct and the scoreboard and monitor report the 
right number of packets. 
  7.  The router module can now be used as a standalone UVC. Copy your router module UVC 
files to the router directory. 
 
Further Work with TLM Connections (Optional)  Lab 9C 
40  SystemVerilog Advanced Verification Using UVM  5/22/11 
 
 
Lab 9C  Further Work with TLM Connections (Optional) 
 
Objective:  To use export TLM connections with the router module UVC  
 
You must complete labs 9A and 9B before starting this lab. 
 
A module UVC does not have such a clearly defined architecture as an interface UVC. With an 
interface UVC, TLM analysis port objects are always defined in the monitor components. We 
know where to look in order to find these. With a module UVC, it can be more difficult to find 
declarations for the TLM analysis imp objects. 
One technique is to extract all the TLM objects used in the module UVC to the top level 
environment. These top-level objects are then connected internally to the correct sub-component. 
 
router module UVC  port 
    imp 
export 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
1.  Modify your router module UVC to present the external TLM connections as top-level 
objects of the router module env. Note the following: 
  You will need to declare export objects in the Router Module environment for the 
imp objects of the monitor and scoreboard. 
  You must connect all the export objects to imp objects in the Router Module 
connect method. 
  The internal YAPP valid connection between monitor and scoreboard does not need 
to be routed to the Router Module environment. 
  The testbench connections to the Router Module UVC will need to be modified. 
  2.  Test your changes in simulation.  
Chan0 
YAPP  YAPP 
Chan1 
HBUS 
Chan2 
Reference 
 
Scoreboard 
Lab 10  Writing Tests 
5/22/2011  SystemVerilog Advanced Verification Using UVM  41 
 
 
Lab 10  Writing Tests 
 
Objective:  To explore structuring tests and create a generation scheme with an 
UVM SystemVerilog verification environment.  
 
To achieve this objective, use the yapp environment to create directed random tests. 
 
Creating Virtual Sequences 
  1.  Create a set of sequences that configures the device once, and sends packets with good 
and bad parity and bad size. 
Bad size is related to max_packet_size. 
  2.  Change the max_packet_size on the fly and have the bad size sequence adjust 
dynamically. 
 
Making a Virtual Sequences and Scoreboard 
  3.  Send 20-30 packets to the device and disable the DUT by writing to the enable register. 
  4.  Wait for a few cycles and enable the device. 
  5.  Verify using the waveform viewer that the device is operating properly. 
 
Writing a Test 
  6.  Write a test in which the distribution of packet size is as follows: 
20: < (max_packet_size - 2) 
30: (max_packet_size -1) 
30: max_packet_size 
20: >max_packet_size 
  7.  Generate packets of this distribution with all generated sequences. 
Writing Tests  Lab 10  
 
Writing a Test (Another Method) 
  8.  Write an API for writing simple tests, directed or random. 
For example, create a write and a read task for the host interface 
write_hif(addr, data) 
read_hif(addr, output data) 
Tip: Make this task invoke `uvm_do_with(...) inside a sequence. 
  9.  From the run_phase() method of a test, call a series of write_hif and read_hif 
to test this simplified interface. 
Would this mechanism work for engineers who want to do directed testing or for 
designers that want a simple test writer interface?  
Lab B  Creating a Simple Functional Coverage Model  
43  
Lab B  Creating a Simple Functional Coverage Model 
 
Objective:  To understand where to implement cover groups in UVM architecture.  
 
To achieve this objective, you need to create a coverage model for the input packet traffic to collect 
the following info: 
 
  REQ1: Ensure all lengths of packets are sent into dut. Create buckets to detect MIN, 
MAX, BABY, TEENY, GROWNUP packets. 
 
  REQ2: Ensure all addresses received a packet, including illegal address. 
  REQ3: Ensure all size packets were sent to all addresses with parity errors, except for 
addr3. 
  REQ4 (optional): Ensure that packets of different lengths are transmitted to all addresses 
with zero delay between transmissions. 
  1.  Create a covergroup in the yapp_tx_monitor.sv. 
 
Remember the syntax for a covergroup instantiated inside a class is different than one 
instantiated in a module. In a class, a covergroup instance is created by calling new() on 
the covergroup name. A separate covergroup variable is not required: 
function new (...); 
super.new(...); 
covergroup_name = new(); 
endfunction: new; 
  2.  Decide how to sample coverage for packets sent to the DUT. 
  3.  Create a coverpoint for REQ1 to sample the length field and create bins to reflect the 
following ranges: 
MIN = 1 
MAX = 63 
BABY in [2..10] 
TEENY in [11..40] 
GROWNUP in [41..62] 
  4.  Run a simulation. 
You’ll have to modify your irun file to enable functional coverage collection inside the 
simulator. Use the coverage options as described in the appendix and online tool 
documents. 
Creating a Simple Functional Coverage Model  Lab B  
 
5.  Analyze coverage results in ICCR. 
By default, Incisive® Unified Simulator puts the coverage file  icc.fcov in the 
directory cov_work/design/test. 
a.  You can load this file in iccr by launching iccr -gui and loading the functional 
coverage file from the file menu. 
 
b.  Select the Functional tab and see the distribution of packets observed. 
  6.  Create a coverpoint for REQ2 and REQ3. Create a coverpoint inside the covergroup 
created in step 1 for sampling address for REQ2 as follows: 
 
a.  Create a legal address bin to verify that all addresses were sampled. 
If address 2 wasn’t generated, then it needs to be reflected in this coverpoint. 
 
b.  Create an illegal address bin that reflects how many packets were sent to address 3. 
  7.  Create a cross inside the covergroup created in step 1 for coding REQ3 by creating a 
cross with the appropriate fields. 
How can you work around the limitation that we cannot have ignores in the cross? 
  8.  Run a simulation and analyze coverage results in ICCR. 
  9.  Optional: Create a coverpoint for REQ4. 
 
a.  Use a cross to model a transition, because the simulator currently doesn’t support 
transitions on coverpoint. 
Tip: You will have to keep track of the previous packet. 
 
b.  To implement back-to-back tracking you’ll have to make sure that the delay is 
captured in the monitor. 
Tip: You can use guard expression to control sampling of a cross. 
  10. Run multiple simulations with random svseed and analyze coverage results in ICCR.